Steven Plappert: Cool. So it's a storytelling game. And it's and it's also really a question and answer game. I think, as we'll see when I get into it here, like what you really want to do when you're when you're walking through your
Steven Plappert: your model with investors is generated back and forth. You want to get the investor asking questions, you want to get them exposing concerns which you're going to answer and alleviate.
Steven Plappert: and that starts by kind of doing that assessment yourself. So I think it's very useful as you guys get up to plan your raise. If you haven't already, you know, use your model as a, as a, as a tool in that planning period, to say, Hey! Like what you know, what are the milestones that you want to reach with this capital map. Those out, how are you gonna get there? You know, you kind of map that path, that operational, that financial roadmap in the model.
Steven Plappert: And and basically say, Okay, if I'm gonna hit those milestones, what resources? Or we, what resources do I need to get there, you know. And then ultimately, what cash. Do I need to buy those resources to get those milestones, you know. So I think it's very helpful and kind of sharpening the ax on the on the on the front end of a raise, and then inevitably, when you do get those very same questions from investors, you've thought through it. You've got a good answer, and you have a model, you know, to to back it up. So I think it's a storytelling game. It's a question and answer game.
Steven Plappert: and it's really it's really something that counterintuitively drives a lot more results in the earlier stages of fundraising than it does in the later stages. And what I mean by that is, you know, like, when you're at the stage of business that I'm at, and you've raised 9 million your next round to series. A. It's like.
Steven Plappert: it's completely table stakes for me to have a great model at this point, to be able to speak to it, to understand my core economics like, there's no way I'm gonna raise a series A, especially not in this market without a good handle on the on the core economics of the business. But at the preced seed stage, that's not always the case, like there's a lot of founders that are out there.
Steven Plappert: you know, just kind of flying by the seat of their pants. They're looking to raise capital. They have no clue, you know. As to the as as to the financial mechanics of the company, the economics of the company, which isn't to say that you anybody would have it all figured out. Nobody does at that at that level, but they haven't really thought through it. And
Steven Plappert: I think that's the reason why, if you're the type of founder, that kind of takes this stuff seriously, that really digs in on the financial aspect of the business, and at least makes a plan, and has, you know, thought through the financial aspects of the company, and can and can articulate that to investors. It's a real pack separator in fundraising. It's one of those things that you know all else equal, you know. Maybe
Steven Plappert: maybe this other company's got good good, good founding team just like you, and great traction and great market opportunity just like you. But they're rolling, and they're really not prepared to talk about the financial aspect of the business. And you are.
Steven Plappert: you know, you're gonna get that check over them. And so I think fundrais is a competitive game, you know. I think you can be a great business and still fail to raise capital. So you gotta do everything you can to do risk it. And I think really building a model owning a model and being being capable of, you know, talking to the financial aspect of the company. It it really tends to resonate with investors who are pejor, you know. Majority
Steven Plappert: finance people right? They're people that are that are kind of hanging their hat on on that game. So
Steven Plappert: stories on game question, answer game. It's and it's and it's an earlier stage game.
Steven Plappert: And that's my preamble. So now, now we'll get into kind of the main 2 2 topics of the day, which is like, how do you use your model to pitch deck to drive conversion into a diligence process into a second meeting with investors, and then ultimately, how do you present that model in a way that drives confidence? So maybe real quick. There, you know, before we get into that any any burning questions or comments you know, on what we've
Steven Plappert: covered thus far.
Chloe Lannert: Looks like so far, so good.
Steven Plappert: Sweet sweet.
Steven Plappert: Okay. So the pitch there pretty simple.
Steven Plappert: you know. And I'm sure you guys obviously are all putting together a deck. And just like I mean demo days. I think the most extreme example of this. But in my opinion, first meetings with investors is not about closing investors. It's about building interest. It's about setting the hook. It's about conversion into diligence.
Steven Plappert: So the pitch deck should lead with all the interest building hooky elements of your story. You know the vision, the market opportunity, the problem, the traction things that are gonna generate investor interest. Your financial model is not going to like, get an investor excited about investing in your company, you know, it's more of a closing diligence item, so we don't want to leave within the deck. We want to put it at the very but end of the deck.
Steven Plappert: And we're just trying to flash basically the financial forecast in front of investors. So I like to keep it really simple, super simple, annual, you know, income statement is is is perfectly fine. In fact, it's preferred for me, I think a very simple slide like this indicates like financial acumen, you know, if you try to make it too. Fancy it. Kinda sometimes, I think, sends a little bit of a different signal. So I just like super plain like this annual income statement summarized. And you're just trying to just signal to the investor. Hey?
Steven Plappert: You know, you've thought through the financial aspect of the business. You have goals, you have plans. You're thinking big, and you're prepared to talk about. You know how the business grows, how the business scales, how the business makes money, you know. So when I get to this slide near the end of my day, yeah, I make a very simple statement. I say, look, Mike, we're the type of founding team that really believes in making making plans and setting goals. And look, we we recognize we're an early stage company like there are a lot of unknowns here, but
Steven Plappert: I think there's a high high ceiling for this business. I'm super confident and and and what we can do here, and like more than anything we've just. We've thought through this business. I think we have a really sound coherent, you know, plan for how we're gonna scale this company. And at the end of the day, if I've done my job here today, and I've convinced you of the merits of this investment. I would love to spend an hour with you sometime early next week.
Steven Plappert: just walk into the financial model that backs up these projections. I think that would be a great bedrock for strategic conversation about this business that would help us both. Understand, you know, if if this is a good deal for both sides.
Steven Plappert: something like that, right? Something that expresses confidence, that that that recognizes, that you don't have it all figured out because the forecast is not is not like A, you know. It's it's gonna be wrong. We all know that. So I think, like, you know, coming up with that on the front end. But it's but still expressing confidence in your plan, and, more than anything, painting a picture of what a second meeting could look like paint, the picture of like wanting to walk through the model with them.
Steven Plappert: which gives them something to latch onto. It gives you something to circle back to at the end of the meeting, and it allows you to get a better conversion through specificity. If that if that makes any sense, that's that's the first thing. I think it's very simple, and you'll see this in my deck in just a minute. So I'm gonna go through this stuff and then, like like I said, I've raised 9 million for forecaster.
Steven Plappert: We're raising another 3 right now, you know. And I I do. I do all this stuff. And and so I'll show you like, we raised 4.5 million last year. I'm gonna show you the deck. I used to raise that capital. I'll show you the model I used, and and walk through it a little bit. So you'll see how this, how this works in my deck in just a in just a minute.
Steven Plappert: But that's the next piece. I think it's I think it's really nice and simple.
Steven Plappert: and then and then the model presentation piece. This is the piece. It's a lot more nuanced. And I think honestly, it's it's most impactful. When you see it live. So like we'll we'll go through my model in just a second. But before before we do, you know, just a couple of pointers on the meeting. So you know the the first pointer, you know, and I'm and I'm pretty staunchly in this camp.
Steven Plappert: as I know Troy is as well like. Don't share the model in advance of the meeting. You really don't want a model to kind of stand alone. Same with Dex like at the end of the day. Fundraising is a game of storytelling. And you're you're the narrator, that story. You're the orator of that story. You're you're telling that story, and and stories are told, not not not shared like that. I think it's like you really need to hold those resources hostage
Steven Plappert: you want. The meeting is where the value occurs. So you need to force the meeting. And so in this context, if you are asked for a financial model, and if you know just yes, and investors will ask sometimes they'll say, Hey, you know, just share me. Share with me your model. Review it. I'll let you know if I have questions.
Steven Plappert: That's not what you want. You're gonna lose a lot of leverage in doing that.
Steven Plappert: You really wanna politely say, Hey, like, I think the real value of walking through the model, isn't you reviewing the model? It's us having a strategic conversation about the business oriented around the numbers, and I think it's worth both of our time to sit down and have that conversation. If we really think that there's a deal a good deal here for both sides. Once we have that conversation which I think would be great, and I'm happy to share a copy of the model with you. So you can stress test that. I recognize the importance of that.
Steven Plappert: you know, does Tuesday at 10 work for you.
Steven Plappert: and that usually works. I usually get get you the meeting and and the reason for that is you do want to control that narrative like, I think it's very human that
Steven Plappert: when we receive new information as people, you know, we form opinions about that information. And then, once we formed an opinion, you know, it tends to be kinda hard to change our opinions. And so you want someone coming in fresh to a meeting without an opinion, so that you can bend their opinion to your favor.
Steven Plappert: It's a psychology game you're playing when you're raising capital. So you need to hold those resources hostage. You need to. You need it. You need people coming in with a more or less blank slate, you know, so you can call it the narrative. So you can pitch the company, you know, and and you can get them to to see the world as you see it.
Steven Plappert: you know, and then when you're and then when you're in the meeting, you know, it's it's a lot more about talking about the business over top of the model than it is about talking about the model. So you'll see this when I go through mine. But you don't need to be getting into the formulas, the assumptions, the nitty gritty. Certainly not. If an investor doesn't ask you to. You want to stay high level, you want to stay strategic and you want to make it a conversation that your job in that meeting is not to tell the investor how your business works.
Steven Plappert: It's to is to have a strategic conversation about the business with the investor, and it's to extract any kind of concerns that they have about the business that might be keeping them from investing so that you can alleviate those concerns through your.
Steven Plappert: So you're a greater understanding of the business, you know. You know your business 10 times better than they do. So you want to understand their concern, and you want to alleviate their concern, and that happens through conversation. So we'll see that you know when I go through mine.
Steven Plappert: But that's that's the piece I find most founders. It's not intuitive, like most founders is intuitive to talk a lot about the model, and maybe go into the assumptions of why they made the assumption that they're making. But that is oftentimes like it just kind of opens up a bunch of cans of worms and a bunch of potential areas for risk. And it bogs down the meeting. You know, you really want to just stick to the high level. Talking points less is more unless you're asked to go deep, in which case you need to be prepared to do that
Steven Plappert: and then, after the meeting.
Steven Plappert: just always follow up something basic, you know, there. But it's just I'm big team like anytime. You have a meeting with an investor. You need to have a time bound specific. Next step, by the time you get off that meeting. That's ideal, just like sales. So leave yourself time at the end of the meeting to define that next step always follow up right after the meeting with that next step, and you can totally share a copy of the model after the meeting. In fact, it is wise to do that.
Steven Plappert: you know, so you know, you can share a link to the model and forecast. If you do that, you can do the same thing in Google sheets, or share a copy of your model in Excel, you know. And and that way. The investor has some time to to dig in deeper, you know, after the meeting, once you've had a chance to to say your piece.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, we got a question.
Jennifer Loh: Kind of oh.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Tunde IO : Jenny, where are you? Gonna go? Sorry, Jenny.
Tunde IO : So yeah.
Steven Plappert: And it was very well.
Tunde IO : Yes, I see. Thanks for for sharing your insights on this. I just had a question. So this process where you effectively try to what tries to hold the model hostage. In order to get the meeting. If we suppose is that you are the next stage after that. Is that then we share your data room.
Tunde IO : If you have a situation where the investor is already kind of bought in and they just like skip the model. And just said, Okay, let's let's share your data room. How do you kind of handle that? Because the model would be in the data room. So do you then share access to data room without the model? Or do you insist on the model on having the conversation about model before giving them access to data room. Cause? I don't know. I just. I'm just trying to
Tunde IO : to think about what you've done in the past. And and when you've raised money, because I presume not, everything follows the same clip. Things happen differently sometimes.
Steven Plappert: A 100%. So fantastic question topic. And so my advice is in the data room to not put the model itself. Or if you do put the model itself to password protected. That's what I like to do, because I want to generate the conversation.
Steven Plappert: So because I use forecaster. What I do is I put like a Pdf. Of the of the forecast in the, in, the, in the, in the data room. So I put my financial forecast in there, the output of the model. But I don't put the model itself, so that when somebody gets to the data room like have that first meeting that I share data. I'm like, yep, cool. I'm totally prepared. I'll share that right away. I share it. They get in there. They see the forecast, but they don't see the model they reach out. They're like, Hey.
Steven Plappert: yeah, I see the forecast. I don't see the model. You have a model that backs us up. I'm like, yes, I do. I I put a lot of time into that model. We've really understand the financial aspect of this business. I'd love to spend 45 min to do. Walk into that model. I'm happy to share your copy, you know. Do you have, you know, a little bit of time I might. I'm pretty free Tuesday at 10 or Thursday as well. You know that kind of thing. Or if you do use excel, you can do the same thing. You just put the file in there. Password protected
Steven Plappert: Google sheets. I think you could do the same thing if I'm not mistaken. So I just kinda like, you know, tease. You want to just tease it out so that you generate that that conversation, and then and then go for it. So that you can try to get those to get those second meetings is that I like to do that with the number of things like this is my like. The more meeting time you can get with an investor, the better chances you have of of getting the investment, in my, in my opinion. So I'm looking for all those ways to get somebody back into a room, you know, where we can have a face to face.
Steven Plappert: Jennifer.
Tunde IO : Like Stephen, appreciate it.
Steven Plappert: Absolutely.
Jennifer Loh: That was a great question. I'm just going further from that like.
Jennifer Loh: what?
Jennifer Loh: What if for different investors you have, you know you want to show different things, I know, like Troy, had mentioned this in our financial modeling workshop, but like, if you have a few different versions of your model, so like in. For so in forecaster is there an ability to
Jennifer Loh: have, you know, different variations and saved versions to send to investors.
Steven Plappert: Yes, there is. So so I I am big team, you have like. So then there's differences and opinions about this. I, to be honest, I can't even recall where Troy is on this spectrum. But my personal philosophy, which all is all talk about. This one is like I like to have one official financial model that I'm raising on. That's the forecast is in the deck. That's the model that I'm presenting. It's one model. It's one picture of the future, this high conviction on a plan.
Steven Plappert: you know. But then, within that plan there is like stress testing right? You might get into a meeting with an investor, and they're saying, well, like you have the 15% conversion rate. I think that sounds high. What if it's 12? Then I might say, well, what if it's 12? Let's clone the model, let's make it 12. Let's see what that is up. Still a great business. So you might have these kind of like, yeah, these kind of scenarios like you're talking about there. I like doing that. I think that's good because you're not trying to defend the model to the ends of the earth.
Steven Plappert: You're trying to show the investor that you that you've thought through the business, and that you're coachable, you know, and you can work well with them. So I like doing that kind of stuff.
Steven Plappert: And and and to answer your question directly about forecaster, you can do that. Yeah. So been forecaster is very easy to like clone scenarios, to adjust scenarios and then to invite investors to just that scenario, you know which you can do quite easily, and we're even working on a feature where you can then see if they view the scenario and where they viewed, and how much time they spend in it, just like you do on docs. And so we're we're building all that out, too, which is neat.
Steven Plappert: But yes, you can do that kind of sharing stuff really easily. Or if you do use a spreadsheet same same deal, you know. Send a copy of the model, you know, to different investors, you know. And so they have that that model discreetly. But but I like to have this kind of one official financial model for the for the raise, and then I kind of branch off it, you know, discreetly with different investors, and and share that with them
Steven Plappert: like ad hoc. If it
Steven Plappert: does that make sense.
Jennifer Loh: Yeah, that's perfect. Thank you.
Steven Plappert: Cool. Thank you. Valerie, you got a you got a question as well.
valeria brenner: Yeah. Yeah. So you were mentioning, like, kind of withholding the the model just showing kind of the projections and then getting that email from them to further the conversation. I was gonna ask, like.
valeria brenner: How do you that that feels like a very like delicate dance to be doing with someone like they might get pissed off that like you don't have everything that they asked for in there. So how do you kind of navigate that.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, I think that is an awesome question. And fundraising in my experience is a delicate dance. It's a dance of leverage. It's a balance of power, and in my personal opinion, investors by default have a lot of power. Because they have the money, and you need the money, and there's more people that need the money than there is a people with the money. So it's like, you're already at a deficit there. And so sometimes it can feel like we need to just
Steven Plappert: do everything that the investor wants, because they have the power. And like, we need to make make their life as easy as possible. But I think in some cases in in like very tactical, and there's and certainly very polite and respectful ways.
Steven Plappert: You know, we? We need to make sure that our needs are met as well. You know we're we're not, you know, a a charity asking for donations. We're a business, offering to sell a piece of something that can be extremely valuable. So I like to kind of come up with that mindset, and I like to use little examples like this to to kind of balance the power, and so it it. And so in practice it looks like this.
Steven Plappert: If I don't include the model in the data room.
Steven Plappert: That's totally fair game like you're not gonna get. No one's gonna be like, what what are you doing, you know? Like I could view that negatively, really, but they might reach out and ask, say, Hey, I see your models, not in your data room. I'd really love to review that, can you go ahead and send it over.
Steven Plappert: To which you say, Hey, yeah, the models, not in the data room. And that's actually because I really would love to have a conversation with investors. You specifically about our model, and just really talk through the forecast, and how we put it together. And, most importantly, how our business works and how how we scale this business. You know, before I share the model, you know, because I really think it's important that we get back into a room and have a good strategic conversation about this business. That's the way both
Steven Plappert: of us are going to understand. If this is truly a good fit for both sides. So blah blah blah like, you know, do you have these times?
Steven Plappert: And then the investor, you know, either is gonna play ball with that which in my experience, most of them do. If you couch it in that way. Or they're gonna say, look, man, I get it. But I'm really busy, and like I need you to send me the model. So something that might be that not be like that
Steven Plappert: kind of dickish, but it's some something like that, you know. Sometimes they are kind of kind of assholes like that. And in those cases you have to kind of make a judgment call, you know, if that's a partner at Sequoia, I'm gonna send the model over because that person probably is way way busy, and they have a lot more power than me. And I would love to get second meeting with this person. So I'm gonna play ball.
Steven Plappert: If that's like Joe Schmo investor. I'm gonna say.
Steven Plappert: look, I like I really appreciate you being forthright about what your interests are. And I recognize you're you're very busy. I'm busy, too, and and we've got a lot of investors to to to negotiate with here into the day. I I think it's worth both of our time to sit back in the room and to have a conversation about this business. Understand? If this is, gonna be a good investment for both sides, you know I I don't. I mean no offense. But if you're not interested in in having a conversation with me about the financial aspect of this business, I I I don't think that you're the right fit for us.
Steven Plappert: and that's what I do. But it it's a it's a personal thing yet that you you have to decide for yourself how much you want to play that game. But I will say in my experience, and I'm not naturally this kind of person, but, like what I found in fundraising is like, you do have to be a little bit more
Steven Plappert: contrarian, I guess, or whatever then, then, typically you think, for in my experience it's like to kind of balance that leverage out. You certainly don't want to be, you know, too cavalier off putting, or definitely not irres like disrespectful at all. But it's okay to to prioritize your own best interests.
Steven Plappert: And then there's reasons why investors want to just consume your resources and then talk to you, and that's because it gives them a lot of power they can pre think of like doubts and concerns, and all these things to pick at your business, and then they can rip you to shreds in the meeting and like you lose a lot of leverage in that
Steven Plappert: so you know it's it's okay to kind of prioritize your own interest as well. In my opinion, you know, and just do that in a really respectful, polite way, but you have to decide yourself when to, when to to take that step. You know some in some cases with some investors, you know. You may be willing to kind of follow their lead, you know, because of their stature.
valeria brenner: No, that makes complete sense. Thank you so much.
Steven Plappert: You got it.
Steven Plappert: Alright! Let me do a quick time check here. And and, by the way, too, I saw we had an hour after this. It's a talk. I usually give it an hour, too. So we'll have plenty of time. You know, with with this one, because this basically all the content here. And then I'm just gonna go take you guys through my example with forecaster so we'll launch launch into that. So. And and I think
Steven Plappert: you'll you'll really get to see kind of my style for the model. Walk through here, and in just a minute. But but first I'll go through the deck. So so this is this is the deck I will use last year I've used a very similar deck for all the capital raises we've had at forecaster in terms of story arc and this isn't really model related. But just while we're here, like my own personal belief on decks and on story is that like.
Steven Plappert: when you're raising, you have 2 main points. You have to prove. The first is proof of vision, the second is proof of execution. My my belief is, if you can prove to investor that there's a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, and you can prove to an investor that you're the founder that's gonna get there, you know, you're likely to get a check and so my my story, my deck is all oriented around proof of vision and proof of execution. So you know, you'll see in my deck
Steven Plappert: proof of vision. You know. Big problem, big market, you know this archaic, you know, you know, operating system for this major business function. So proof of vision, you know. And then I'm like
Steven Plappert: we're going to be the carda of financial models, multi-billion dollar company proof of vision. You know, we've got this huge gold mine of private company financial data that we're going to anonymize and benchmark proof of vision.
Steven Plappert: You know, we're there's we're like these other companies that have taken excel, based business functions and put them online over the last few decades. We're the next iteration in that, you know. Proof of vision.
Steven Plappert: We've got a tried and true business model that scales low risk proof of execution. You know we've got great growth. We've got great retention. We've got great unit economics proof of execution.
Steven Plappert: we're, you know. We've taken a unique position on the market. That's gonna yield an outsize return. We've got a strong, you know, advantage on on distribution through through channel partnerships. You know, we, we differentiate through a human approach. These are all things that should should try to prove that. You know, we're the Pre. We're the team that can get to the pot of gold proof of execution.
Steven Plappert: But it's not until you know this is the end of my deck right here. It's like a I think 15 slides on my deck.
Steven Plappert: you know, raising 4 million not to hire people not to buy time, you know, raising 4 million to achieve an objective, raising 4 million to buy customers to buy revenue to buy in increased unit economics. Right? I'm I'm raising 4 million to hit milestones.
Steven Plappert: And right before I do that, though I'm just flashing the forecast. So just a screenshot of a forecaster here.
Steven Plappert: But I'm flashing the forecast. And, like I said before, when I get to this slide. I say, look, you know, I recognize for an early stage company I recognize there are a lot of unknowns, but we're the type of founding team that believes in
Steven Plappert: the financial fundamentals. We believe in setting goals, we believe in making plans, and we believe in holding ourselves accountable to those goals. And we're thinking big. I think there's no question there's a high ceiling for this business. I think there's no question that we're really onto something here and and look, I think you know of of all the businesses out there. We really understand the financial mechanics of this business, and you know, frankly, if I've done my job here today of convincing you the merits of this business, I would love to spend an hour with you sometime next week, just
Steven Plappert: walking you through the financial model that supports this forecast. And, most importantly, just having a really strategic conversation with you about how we acquire, about how we monetize about the cost of scale and what our plans are for this business. I think that would give both of us a a great understanding of you know if this is a real, if this is a good deal for both sides, so I'd love to spend that time with you, and we can circle back to that at the end of the meeting.
Steven Plappert: and then get to the end. Finish the pitch. Have the QA. Watch the clock, you know, with 5 min left in the meeting. I try to usually transition. Say, hey? So it looks like we have about 5 min left. Want to get you out of your own time, you know. I thought, this is a great meeting today. First of all, I thought it was a good back and forth, and you know you can tell me, but you seem like a good investor for us. You seem interested, and
Steven Plappert: and I'd love to continue the conversation. So what I'd love to do is really, you know, take the next step is to walk you through the financial model. I think I think I think talking about this business through the numbers. I think it's gonna really help. You understand the core economics of the business. I think it help us both understand? You know if this is a good fit for both sides, and I'd love to do that. I've got some time early next week. Tuesday looks pretty open for me, you know, how does that sound to you?
Steven Plappert: They just throw. I just I'll I'll just throw that out there to try to really paint a picture, get a conversion right there.
Steven Plappert: If they latch onto that great, you schedule it. You do it, you know, if they give you something specific like, Hey, I really appreciate that, Steven, that you know it sounds good. But but what I'd really love to do actually is like, you know, get get more into the product. Could we do a product, demo or something you're like? Yep, got it, or meet co-founder? Yep, got it? Go to market deep, got it? Whatever they latch onto. You're trying to schedule that meeting, whether it's a model or not, you know, or if they give you something really vague, like, yeah, I appreciate that, Steven. But you know, let me huddle up. I'll get back to you.
Steven Plappert: Yeah. Then I try to still kind of push on that and say, yeah, totally well, like, what? What do you think is the best next step I know you said you're gonna huddle up, you know. When? When should I expect to hear back. Yeah. Cause I'm trying to get something that's time bound, something that's specific, not trying to over push right? But I'm trying to get something that's time bound specific. So I can keep the pressure out.
Steven Plappert: If they still give me something vague and say, well, I don't know. We're gonna have to huddle up, Steve. Then then I'm like, Okay, totally got you? Well, really appreciate the time today, and and I'll follow up early next week if I don't hear from you, you know something like that, and then and then that's what you do, you know, because you can't overpress, but but if possible you really want to try to be specific with the next step. The more you keep people moving.
Steven Plappert: the more you'll get, the more yeses you'll get, the quicker nose. You'll get either way the better allocation of time, you know, to to drive, to drive the results in the raise. So
Steven Plappert: That's my 2 cents on the deck, and kind of like how to use the model in it to set yourself up for a secondary meeting.
Steven Plappert: and I'll share this deck with you guys as well, if that's interesting.
Steven Plappert: and then on the model itself.
Steven Plappert: get out.
Steven Plappert: So my model lives in forecaster. Obviously, you know shame on me if it didn't but but just to say it again, like, you know, you don't have to use forecaster to do what I'm about to do. If you use excel. If you use Google Sheets, you can do the same stuff. It just obviously looks different. You know. But but here but here's my financial model in forecaster, you know, we've got a bunch of scenarios like, what if we don't grow? What if we slow growth. Or
Steven Plappert: you know, what are our goals and that kind of stuff? We've got all the assumptions that drive the model. And then ultimately, we've got the 3 statement financial model. You know the output of that financial model as well.
Steven Plappert: You look at it monthly, quarterly annually. So that's kind of the lay of the land here.
Steven Plappert: And and so when you're presenting your financial model to investors.
Steven Plappert: one of the most important things, in my opinion, to keep in mind is what is the purpose of this meeting? Right? You know. You know, what are we ultimately trying to do with this meeting? And and the obvious one to me is if we're trying to close them as an investor, you know we're trying to. You know, we're trying to get their investment. That's that's the ultimate purpose.
Steven Plappert: And so what's what's what's keeping them from investing? And so I was I. This is how I frame a second meeting like at at the time that you're walking into your financial model. There's no question that they're interested in the business. They wouldn't be here if they weren't like. You've had some initial meeting. They're clearly interested. They're here in a second meeting. So so it's not about building interest. It. It's about alleviating concerns. They're interested, but they have concerns. That's that's that's their headspace.
Steven Plappert: Because if they're interested in, they had no concerns, they would have already committed to the round. But they're interested, but they have concerns, they have doubts, they see risk right. And so our goal in this meeting is to expose the concern, expose the risk, expose the doubt and then quell it, relinquish it, alleviate it right? It's like, get it off the board.
Steven Plappert: And so we have to focus our time on. Where are those doubts? Where is that risk? Where are those concerns?
Steven Plappert: I would say. It's
Steven Plappert: 97 times out of 100 they're on the customer acquisition and revenue side of the house, like most investors, are not concerned with your general and admin expenses, they might be somewhat, you know. They might have questions about your hiring plan. But they're largely concerned with, how are you acquiring customers? How are you monetizing those customers? What is your unit economics, that kind of stuff? What is, yeah, they're they're concerned with growth.
Steven Plappert: So I say that all to say that when you get to your financial model walk through and you're having the conversation about the model. That's where you want to focus your time, like, focus your time on how do you acquire on? How do you monetize on the customer acquisition and revenue stream. You know, sections of your model. And I'll do that in in in just a minute. But that's the first. That's your first job is like, tell them how you acquire. Tell them how you monetize.
Steven Plappert: and then most importantly, open up a dialog about that, you know. Don't just lecture about how this stuff works.
Steven Plappert: Give them a high level overview, like you'll see me do in just a minute.
Steven Plappert: and then pause and basically say, Hey, what are your questions? What concerns do you have? What risks do you see in this business? Because you know that they have them so? There's no sense in even saying, Do you have any questions? Or do you have concerns? It's just what questions do you got? What concerns do you have? What risk do you see, let's talk about it.
Steven Plappert: So you can do that. Once you go through customer acquisition, once you go through revenue, that's the
Steven Plappert: yeah majority of the meeting.
Steven Plappert: you know. Then I think there's a very natural next step where you can say, Hey, you know, you know, if we're gonna hit these exciting projections. If we're gonna get to 340,000. And Mrr, by the end of the year, we need resources like we need people. Here are the hires that we're gonna make over the next 12 to 18 months in order to facilitate that revenue growth all about the milestones. So it's use of funds. Basically, here are the people we're gonna hire to hit the milestones.
Steven Plappert: Here are the sales and marketing and other kind of material expenses that we're going to incur in order to hit the milestones. So it's all about the milestones. You keep circling things back to that. But you cover the expenses just to show investors that you've thought through it.
Steven Plappert: And then the final piece of the meeting. When you're making the turn towards
Steven Plappert: Towards the end of the meeting
Steven Plappert: you wanna go to the you wanna basically close the loop? You wanna close the loop to the forecast that you showed them in in the deck right? So you're closing the loop towards the the forecast ultimately, that you presented to the investor in the deck. Right? So it's come full circle, and this is the best place usually to make a direct ask. So you're gonna turn towards this near the end of the meeting.
Steven Plappert: and what I like to do is just come to this and say, look like end of the day. You know.
Steven Plappert: we're raising this round this 2 million dollar seed round to hit these projections. We're raising this 2 million dollar round to build or build a material business. Here. We have our sites on a very large business here, and that's why I'm excited about having this conversation, like, I think frankly, from the conversation today that you'd make a great investor for us. I thought you asked some really good questions. I think you could provide a lot more value than just to check. And
Steven Plappert: and if I could be so candid, I I think we'd make a great addition to the portfolio. So yeah, like, we talked a little bit in our first meeting. We've got about 500,000 committed to this round already, which is great. We're looking for somebody to come in and lead the round with a million dollar check, and
Steven Plappert: I mean frankly, I'd love that. I'd love for that to be you. I think you guys would make a great investor for this business, so I'd love to see you put a million in, you know. But but should be straight, you know where you at. With respect to making an investment in this business, and and what other information do you need from me in order to make that decision?
Steven Plappert: And then just pause and just
Steven Plappert: let the silence sit and see what they have to say. That's my biggest piece of advice on that, because, like I did a really bad job of that early in my career of like making that direct ask is, it's not putting somebody on the spot. It's just it's just being upfront. It's just saying, Look, I'm super confident this business we've got a great business. I want to get back to business like, let's get a deal done here. I'd love to see you put a million in.
Steven Plappert: What do you think, you know, and giving them an opportunity to respond, because you really get a sense of where someone's heads at in that response. If they get, if they they could say anything from. You're right, let's do it, which they hardly ever say, but like they could say anything from like
Steven Plappert: done, you know, which, if it's an angel they do like a like. I'll say the same thing to angels. I'll you'll walk an angel through the Mall and say, Hey, love to see you put 50 k. In this round. Can I count on your commitment? Would love to see you put 100 k. In this round? Can I kind of count on your commitment, and just like comb. It says soft commitments are what you're going for. If it's not a lead, if it elite is a lead, you say, look, I'd love. I'd love to set the terms with, you know, and I'm pretty forthright about that. Some people say, don't ask somebody to lead. I'm not in that camp I like. If so, if I know somebody could lead around, I'm like I'd love to see you lead this round
Steven Plappert: like, because I want to ask for the business. So
Steven Plappert: I'm pretty direct about that these days. It's worked well for me,
Steven Plappert: and you and and I think you can read a lot from the response. Because some people, if if someone's really vague in their response, like, you know, appreciate that, Stephen, we're going to need some time.
Steven Plappert: They're less interested. If they're more specific in their response, then they're more interested, they'll say something like, Hey appreciate the ask. I'm not, you know, ready to make a commitment today. But what I'd like to see is XY and Z, or like, appreciate that, like, we're gonna need to make this as a consensus, you know. Let me get with my partners on Monday. Let me have a discussion about it. We'll get back to you on Tuesday morning with next steps like the more specific they give you in a response, the more interested they are.
Steven Plappert: the more vague you know, the the the less interested they are. And so you can get a really good sense of where they are. And then you can. You can kind of push with the folks that
Steven Plappert: that are most interested. So
Steven Plappert: that's my high level arc. Yeah, Denver.
Jennifer Loh: Sorry this is not related to forecaster for fundraising.
Jennifer Loh: Managing your investor pipeline. Do you have a specific tool that you like using in order to manage your investor. Crm.
Steven Plappert: I do. It's just Google sheets. And I actually templated this. I've a lot of founders use this these days. But I have this kind of like, freakish Google Sheet, I'll show you really big. But like it's basically got a bunch of sections like close commitments. It's it's basically like a Crm, right? It's like a pipeline. I'm moving people up.
Steven Plappert: but I have. You know, I'll have, like their type of investor, the city, the name, the firm, you know, whether they lead. If I have an intro, their priority. So I like wave my investors, you know, and try to focus on friendlies first, then leads, then then people that would fill out the round
Steven Plappert: put in the investment range the last action, and then a number of other things like what stage or Geo they focus on how much drive powder they have that kind of stuff. So I just use a spreadsheet, you know. And because I think it's really clean and easy, and I just kind of move people through that spreadsheet. And if anybody is interested in in kind of getting a copy of this this spreadsheet, like I said, I have templatized this. So you're you're you're welcome to it.
Steven Plappert: But I've also seen that people. I've seen people use Hubspot, really? Well, I've seen people use found, you know. Is it founder suite? I think it is really really well, so you know. I think other tools can work work really well, too. But I'm definitely big team like, have an organized pipeline and run it like a sales process. I think that's definitely definitely the right idea.
Jennifer Loh: Okay, cool. Yeah. I can tell. You're like a classic sales like sales tech salesperson. But it's great. I'll reach out for a template. Thank you.
Steven Plappert: Cool, cool. Yeah, I'm definitely like a financey sales guy. Which is another reason why I think I do well in fundraising, because it's kind of a financing sales process.
Steven Plappert: so yeah, so so let me do like a little bit of role play here. Cause I think this will really help you guys kind of picture the style that I'm advocating for when you walk through the model in terms of the high, level, strategic overview and not digging into the model. So so let me, I'm just gonna go through my revenue section here. So like, imagine you know, you guys, are, you guys are an illustrious, you know investor group and we've had a great first meeting, and I was able to convince you guys to to take a second meeting here and walk through the model.
Steven Plappert: You know I would do something like this, I'd say, Hey, look first of all, thanks. So much for taking the time to to take this meeting like I recognize, you know, you're an investor that has a lot of companies that you could meet with. And look, I've got a company to run, but but I think the first meeting was great. I think there's real potential here for a deal, and and I'm excited to walk through the financial aspect of this business. You know, I think we've got a great business. I think it's really thought through it. And and I just want to have a deeper conversation with you to see if if this is really going to be a good fit for both sides. So I appreciate us being here. And
Steven Plappert: and and what I really wanted to focus the time on today is
Steven Plappert: it's just how we acquire and how we monetize. I I I think both both you and I would agree, you know, if we can acquire customers really well and monetize them really? Well, we're likely to succeed as a business, and you're likely to get a really strong return on your investment. And and I just want you to know, like we freak about that stuff over here. All we focus on is like how we acquire, how we monetize, how we grow. And that's what I want to walk you through first.
Steven Plappert: You know. And and if I'm being frank like, I'm sure you have concerns about this business, I'm sure you see risk within this business, and I'm and it's probably on that side of the house, so I'd love to understand what those concerns are. I'd love to understand the risk that, you see, you know, so that I, so that I can build a better business. And so we can have a real conversation. So you know, first, let me just walk you through
Steven Plappert: our customer acquisition. Yeah, we can't. We can't monetize any customers we don't acquire. And we've thought a lot about customer acquisition. We've done in really. Really. Well, so we've been around a best of business 4 years. You know, we use this model every single month. So all this, all this data here in gray. This is all our real numbers, and we could go back as far into the past as you might like. But you know the vast majority of our customers come from partnerships we acquire kind of in the mid thirties right now, in terms of customers per month, which is, which is a good number for us.
Steven Plappert: You know we're trying to get up to 48 customers a month by the end of the year.
Steven Plappert: And then scale that up to 67 customers. By the end of next year. So you know not ludicrous projections here, I think very level headed reasonable projections here I feel really confident that we can hit those numbers. So about 50. By the end of this year, about 70 by the end of next year, that's what's gonna get it done for us. You know that that translates to good solid 2 x year of your revenue growth.
Steven Plappert: you know, and if I zoom out a little bit.
Steven Plappert: you know big picture like
Steven Plappert: like the the number one channel that we have, and what's worked so well for us as a business is partnerships like at the end of the day. What we do is we exchange expertise on financial models for for natural exposure to companies who might be interested in our product and our services. We get into and teach, we get in and educate. It's all in kind, and it generates a lot of leads and a lot of business for us. It's something we've done, really. Well, it's something we emulated off of hubspot and card.
Steven Plappert: you know, and that's our that's our breadwinning channel. And I think, as you well know, distribution falls the power law. That's the channel that we're doubling, tripling down on a lot of the investment in this round is going into that channel.
Steven Plappert: you know. But secondarily, yeah, we do see a lot of opportunity and organic.
Steven Plappert: There's a lot of opportunity for content for SEO social. You know, we do a really good job of just providing good domain ex expertise broadly to the market. That's generated a lot of customers as well. And you know. I mean you can. You can. You can tell, like we don't need to get the whole whole market here to build a big business like this is a significant business. You know. We're we're only acquiring about 5,000 companies. That's a pretty small slice of the grander. You know. Private company ecosystem here. So
Steven Plappert: I I think we've got a great handle on customer acquisition. I think we've really thought through this stuff, and we've got a great plan. But
Steven Plappert: yeah, that that's just me like what I'd ultimately love to hear is like, what questions do you have about how we acquire customers or customers in general, you know and like I said before, I'm sure you have concerns. So what concerns you most about customer acquisition, or or just what risks do you see? Let's talk about that, you know, before we jump over to revenue
Steven Plappert: the time out there.
Steven Plappert: That's the kind of style I advocate for, and I want to pluck out a few threads out of that, you know, before before throwing it around.
Steven Plappert: The first thread is like I didn't really get into the model at all, like. I'm not telling you about the conversion rates, the growth rates that any assumptions that I'm making I'm not really telling you about hardly any of the numbers, you know. I think I thank you for your time, which I think is just good thing to do. I told you that I use this model every month. I update it with real data. If you do that, you you should say that investors love to hear that they love to know that like you're actually taking this stuff seriously.
Steven Plappert: and then I and then I told you where I'm at right now, where I'm going over the time horizon of this investment next 12 to 24 months. What my goals and milestones are, what it means in terms of revenue. So just high level goals and milestone stuff.
Steven Plappert: And then a zoom out big picture strategy stuff right? Zoom out big picture. What's my bread? Winning channel? Why do I think it's gonna work, you know? Ex a quick expression of confidence. And then the most important thing I did was shut up and and put it back to the investors like I I think I talked for 3 or 4 min there and then I put it back to the investor. That's what you want to do. It's like.
Steven Plappert: and and you should practice it just like you practice a pitch. It's like 3 to 5 min, Max, for each section, for customer, acquisition for revenue, etc, and then put it back to the investor and try to draw out those questions. Draw those concerns, and then you're saying, great question, love? That question. Here's my answer. Oh, I think that's a super valid concern.
Steven Plappert: But I'll tell you what I mean from my vantage point in the captain's chair. I'm really not worried about that. And here's why, like you want to get into that kind of conversation, the more you do that, the more confidence you'll inspire and the greater chances that you that you get an investment? Yeah, Vincent.
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: Yeah, this session has been honestly amazing, cause we are also in kind of like the B 2 B space at dub prime. And I've also thought about channel partnerships as like the right way to like build trust because we're in Fintech. So it's a long sales cycle, anyways, sounds like it's time similar to yours. You're doing me to be anyways would love to understand. If you've actually ever seen any data, or from your companies or other companies around the value of a sales partner, and how you quantify that cause. That's something like me and my co-founders kind of often go back and forth about is like, should we be doing direct sales to individual businesses? Or
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: are these Channel partnerships like truly way more valuable? I'm curious if you have any data to backup this approach.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, it's a great question. And so I don't have any kind of hard data in terms of like the the value of a sales partner or something like that. But I I I will say, you know, for my business, like I mean, these are all my real numbers, is my actual, real financial model. So I can't say like, you can see just how big of a deal it's been for us. I mean, partnerships has been by far our biggest channel. So you know, it's definitely it's it's definitely a viable option for
Steven Plappert: B Twob companies for any company. I think partnerships can be as long as you think really hard about the value exchange like if you're either paying like usually in partnerships in my experience, one size, providing distribution, the other side is providing some sort of value that could be money, or in my case, it's education, you know. And so you know what is the value that you're providing to these partners? How are you incentivizing them to send you distribution? If you can nail that, if you can really become a
Steven Plappert: piece of their their their engine. Then you can win with partnerships, and something I'd like to say more broadly to the group
Steven Plappert: is that you know it's it's not lost on me that in my overview right there in my story these days, I can lean on the fact that, like I've been around for 4 years, and I have historical data that proves this works. I just have to prove I can scale it.
Steven Plappert: You may be at a much earlier stage in your business where maybe your prem market maybe your pre revenue, you know. I I was to, you know, at a certain point, and I was still pitching this this same the same way. And when you're early on, and you don't have data to back up your story, what you really have to fall back on is just like it's just like building a strategic argument like Bill, you have to build an argument. And one of the most effective ways that I found to build the argument, for my business was leaning
Steven Plappert: on contemporary companies that have succeeded in tangential markets, right like, you know, doing this right? So what I did was like early on in forecaster. I was like, Hey, like I kind of like want to be hubspot. But for financial models I kind of want to be Karta, but for financial models. So let me talk to Hubspot. Let me talk to Cara. Let me talk to people in their growth departments. Let me like, put my hat in hand and say, Hey, I'm building a company that's kind of like you, but it's not competitive. You in any way. I'd love to understand what's been your breadwinning channel.
Steven Plappert: And like, I got a bunch of ideas from those companies we're like, they're flattered because it's mentorship. I'm not competitive to them. It's not a threat, and they just get on the call. And they're like, Hey, like Channel partnerships crushed for us. That's what that's what the Vp. Of growth. Tom Maddow told me about Cardi. He led Carter's growth from 2,01320 18, you know. I called emailed this guy and he got got back to me, and we had a 1 h call. It was awesome, you know. Hubspot was similar deal. They were like inbound marketing education.
Steven Plappert: We just taught people how to do inbound marketing, and they paid us to do it for them. And like, I just combined those 2 things that's been my number one channel since day one, and that worked for me. But
Steven Plappert: you know it was really effective in my early days of fundraise, where I was saying, hey, partnerships is going to be our breadwinning channel. How do I know that
Steven Plappert: I talked to Hubspot? I talked to Carter. That's what works for them. They sell the same customer segment. It's a very corollary business. I have a high degree of of certainty that this is gonna work for us, too. And oh, by the way, we're the type of company that makes agile decisions, we're the type of company that tracks data religiously as we as we execute on this plan, we will iterate it as need be. That's the kind of stuff that investors love to hear. So if you are really early and you don't have data. Just really think critically about how you're building your argument to defend. You know your plan, because that is what's
Steven Plappert: going to be evaluated. Essentially, it's a lot less about the numbers. It's a lot more about the strategy. Like I'm not. I'm not defending that. I'm gonna do 841 customers in 2027. I'm defending that. I can scale partnerships broadly, you know, and it's like, and that's the level I want to stay as soon as I get into defending specific numbers.
Steven Plappert: The the meeting has gotten away from me like I need to be defending broad strategy, broad strokes
Steven Plappert: and and and and so so that's kind of you. Wanna you wanna keep the the level high kind of like a politician like, if a politician gets asked a really specific question. They don't give a really specific answer. They give a really broad answer. And that's because it's really effective in in like telling a story and and bending people to their favor. And there's something we can learn that's frustrating. But it's also effective like. And so that's kind of where we where you have to do that dance of like. Try to stay as high level out of the weeds as possible. If you get pulled into the weeds
Steven Plappert: you have to engage, but then pull yourself back up as soon as you can, you know, and and you have to get good at like kind of.
Steven Plappert: you know, playing that playing that game if that makes any sense. But yeah, hope that's helpful, Brian. What what you get.
Brian at Circle+: Hi, Steven, firstly, I want to withdraw all my reservations that I had on email. I I'm I've been convinced I've been one over, that's all I wanted to say, but very quick.
Brian at Circle+: Very quickly.
Brian at Circle+: I just have a very
Brian at Circle+: almost of kind of curiosity. But I'm gonna just triple off what Vincent was saying. Do you guys have visibility on your customers? Data, financial models? And if yes, what are some of the most interesting insights that you've
Brian at Circle+: picked up. You know that you see from the back end especially around
Brian at Circle+: the financial of our financial model process. Especially, I would actually even add a caveat like for companies that are not familiar with
Brian at Circle+: textures where we have Troy, who gets us introductions into financial model. What are the some of the common mistakes they make, or some of the very common best practices that they done to that actually work? What are some of the interesting into any sites that you have seen. Yeah.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, it's a, it's a great question. So the answer is like, technically, we do have access to the data. But we're not actually doing anything with it. Yet. We actually just set up a data warehouse where and we're doing. And we're going like through our sock to compliance process, or like, if everything kind of locked down in a warehouse anonymize and encrypted. And then we're gonna basically like, be you trying to use that to like aggregate and and surface like completely an anonymous like peer to peer benchmarks for companies. But we haven't done anything there yet.
Steven Plappert: so I can't really give you any kind of insights more like at that. At that level I can, though, speak at length about. You know financial models generally, common mistakes that are made, and and what the best models looks like. And and if and just to hit on a couple of things there.
Steven Plappert: the number one most common mistake I see in financial models especially for early stage companies, is over engineering, I mean, well, the number one mistake is not building one to be honest. But like, if you build one, then then then the number one mistake is over. Engineering the models like just going too deep, trying to capture too much like early on in the business. You really want a simple financial model that you can operationalize and use monthly. You want a simple financial model that you can speak to with investors.
Steven Plappert: but but but going much deeper than that, it's false precision. So when you build your model, I keep it relatively simple out of the gate really anchored around the story you're trying to tell. Keep it directional. And then, as you build the business as you stabilize the business, you're going deeper. I call this Mvp. Modeling like, if you're early in the business, just like you build your product as an Mvp. And then build it out over time. Do the same thing with your model, you know. Build, build that out over time.
Steven Plappert: And then the second most common mistake I see in modeling is not being specific enough when it comes to the revenue side of the business. So there's a lot of models that'll be really specific on expenses and then revenue, just like magically generates and grows. And that's a big mistake, because that's where most the risk is in the business. That's where most investor questions are. And so when you're when you're building the business, you need to have specific channels for customer acquisition, you know, specific revenue streams and stuff like that.
Steven Plappert: So that you can really like. Tweak the tweak the model, and understand your business on that side you should go deeper on revenue than you should on expenses, and when you're backing the business, the business up or the model up with investors, that's where their questions are gonna lie. And so, you know, if they have questions about customer acquisition, and your customer acquisition doesn't have any channels in it. It's just we start with 10 customers, and it grows at 10% a month, and that's how it is.
Steven Plappert: you know. Then it indicates to investors that you probably haven't thought about how that you're acquiring customers, which which adds to the risk profile. So
Steven Plappert: yeah, I don't know that that's that's helpful. But but that's that's what I would. That's what I'd say.
Steven Plappert: Cool, cool, awesome, great question.
Steven Plappert: Okay, so I know we're a little bit over the the, you know. That's kind of the top of the hour here. But but so really, you're just rinse. And repeating this over and over again. So you have that kind of short overview, like I did on customer acquisition. You're getting into question and answer, you know. And what I find is when you do this well, too, it's like
Steven Plappert: a lot of the questions you get aren't even about the model, like on customer acquisition, right? I'd get the question of like, how do your partnerships work? Do you pay for those, or who are your who's your? What's your ideal customer? Profile stuff like that which, like, is like model adjacent right? But it's about the business, not the model, which is what you want? I want the question like, Who's your Icp. I want the question like, How do your partnerships work? Not the question of like, what's the month over month growth rate in your partnerships, or something like that, like, I want those more strategic E kind of questions.
Steven Plappert: So that's what you want to orient it for. And then
Steven Plappert: when you do get through customer acquisition, you just transition, say great. So like, let's talk a little bit about how we monetize these customers as a reminder. We're a sas services business. So we believe in the human approach. We don't shy away from the human approach. Every single one of our customers gets an analyst, and that analyst works with them hand in hand to build, maintain, and update the model report on it. To investors. We even go so far as to do see if a services, you know, we offer that to about 30 of our 600 customers today.
Steven Plappert: you know, and and it's a pretty material piece of our revenue engine right now. I mean, it's about a fourth of our revenue. Blah blah! Blah! So I'll talk to that. But then I might zoom out and and talk to, you know. But long term this is a Saas business. This is a product company, you know. You can see it's only about 20% of our revenue in the in the, in the long run. And oh, by the way, you know our gross margin is in the is in the low seventies. So you know, this is a this is a really strong business.
Steven Plappert: So I'm I'm talking about. You know how the business makes money. I'm I'm doubling down on a strategic element of the company like our human approach. I'm talking about the evolution of the business.
Steven Plappert: But then I would talk about, you know. Goals and milestones, too, I'd say, look like over the past couple of years we've been doubling in revenue. We're a little bit over 200,000 today. You know, we're gonna we're looking to get to 3 40 by the end of this year, you know, up into 5, 35 by the end of next year. And this sets us up well for first for scale. I think it sets us up really? Well for a series a sometime next year. Blah, blah, blah, yeah. So you're just talking about similarly.
Steven Plappert: like, key story points, key strategic elements. How you make money, goals, and milestones, but you're not getting deep into the weeds. And then you're and then you similar deal. Bring it back to them, ask them what concerns or questions they have. It could be about unit economics. It could be about retention or price. It could be about your product and service, and how it works in in general, you know, you're engaging in those questions.
Steven Plappert: and then you're and then you're keeping it moving. You're watching the clock. And like, once, you really exhaust these 2 sections. That's when you're saying, Hey, look well, you know, if we're gonna if we're gonna basically purchase the growth that you see in the model. Here are the skill gaps that we need to hire. Here are the people we need to hire in order to facilitate that revenue growth. We've really thought through the the cost of scale, you know. Here are the other material expenses that will incur as we scale the business. Blah blah blah. So like
Steven Plappert: just couple, you know, couple of high levels on those.
Steven Plappert: Usually, there's not a ton of questions in my experience on the on the expense side, more on the people than expenses. But you definitely want to hit on, you know their your major costs
Steven Plappert: and then finally.
Steven Plappert: and really, maybe, like probably not. Most importantly, most important about the revenue, but but a close second to it is just getting yourself in the habit of making that direct ask of zooming out and say, Look like.
Steven Plappert: you know I've enjoyed this meeting. I think you you make a great investor for us, and look frankly, I'd love to get back to building this business, you know. I'd I'd love to get back to building this business for raising a 1.5 million dollar seed. I'd love to see you guys come in, do a 750 K. Check and lead this round. You know. I think we could find pretty fair and reasonable terms. And you know, let's make it happen so should be straight, you know where you at your investment decision making process and like.
Steven Plappert: what do we gotta do to get a deal down here
Steven Plappert: and just see what they say, you know. See what they say. And if they if they say yes, jump with that, they say no, that's cool, you know. If they say something squishy in between, you know, maybe push a little bit. Try to get some specificity, but if you, if you can get it great, you know time down specific. Next step, keep them moving. If you can't, you know? Then, frankly, they're probably not that interested. But you're still gonna follow up aggressively, because you're not. Gonna you're not gonna assume that. But you say, Okay, cool, like, well, I'll follow up within a few days if I don't hear back. And blah blah, blah. So
Steven Plappert: yeah, I don't like. I wanna belabor some of these points, you know. So so let me let me pause here. See if there's any other kind of questions while we're here looking at the model, and then otherwise it's pretty much the end. So I'll just kind of wrap things up, and then we can get to get to any other final final questions. And let you guys back out and on your way and prepping for for dinner day. So
Steven Plappert: any any any other questions here on the kind of the the model, Walkthrough, while we're sitting here looking at looking at my model and that kind of stuff
Steven Plappert: go.
Jennifer Loh: Can we go through the assumptions so like when you.
Steven Plappert: Sure.
Jennifer Loh: Have specific things like like, Si, the scenario where someone's like, Oh, I think your conversions are too high. Where do this input like, what does that input look like
Jennifer Loh: is that in the rules.
Steven Plappert: Yep, well, that's actually here. So it's here in the assumption. So yeah, it's like, if I got the question of like, hey? Well, well, like feel back the onioneer for me, Steven, like I'd love to understand like, what's your conversion look like, and that kind of thing.
Steven Plappert: So I would kind of jump in. And I'd say, Yeah, you know, like, I mean, let's let's look at techstars. They're they're our biggest partner. I mean to be quite honest with you guys. They're our biggest partner, you know. It's like, so it's like, so you know, right now, you know, we work with about 9 9 programs at a time. We're looking to scale that up to 12 over time. You know, we're we're we get about 3 3 leads per per program right now. And.
Jennifer Loh: Vincent Brian, and probably me.
Steven Plappert: About half of those end up getting on with our salespeople, and we close about 2 thirds of those as as new customers. So, and if someone was like, you know well, that clear conversion rate looks more high, I mean, in my case I can say, Well, it's our actual conversion rate. But if I did want to adjust that, I'd say, well, yeah, like cool. Let's see what it looks like at at 40. Mean, I'm I'm not gonna lower any further than that. It won't. It won't be any further than that. But we can take a look at that and see what that does
Steven Plappert: right inside kind of make that adjustment. So in terms of forecaster, this is kind of how it looks right now. There's these drawers that things live in. And
Steven Plappert: and then just one super quick thing is one thing I think is kind of neat about forecaster is, we take kind of a logic based approach so like
Steven Plappert: the way you set assumptions is like you have different ways that things could change like it could be a one time change. It could grow straight line. It could grow as like a percentage, or it could like Escur. And you're putting in like logically, what's going on? You're like from September until this. Change it to that, you know, rather than having to like. Write out the formula. And then the platform basically just converts that logic into into math. So that's kind of how that forecaster works.
Jennifer Loh: I love that.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, well, thank you. So yeah, you got a question or coming.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Hi, thank you for the great talk. Yeah, it it's really insightful.
Snow Lee / Runbear: yeah, this can be really, really dumb question. So
Snow Lee / Runbear: you you wait when you speak, how the strategy about having the conversation with investors. It sounds really really clear and easy to do that. But actually, when I face customers or investors. It's really, really difficult for me to follow the strategy.
Snow Lee / Runbear: So yeah, the the dumb question, do you have any tips that how I can practice this this kind of conversations.
Steven Plappert: Yes, okay, that is so. First of all, that is not a dumb question at all. That is a very smart question, because that is my experience as well. It's like it's one thing in the in the classroom here to talk about executing on this and but then it's another thing entirely. When you get out in the field, having investor meetings and and things can get off the rails very quickly. You can get bogged down in details that you can get knocked off track and like it's a skill to like.
Steven Plappert: It's a skill to run a meeting and to control a meeting which is a very valuable skill and fundraising. So how can we practice that skill?
Steven Plappert: Number one thing we can do is like is, I mean, is just literally practice a repetition thing, and what I like to do is like
Steven Plappert: before you get to the starting gate with around. And and so I do this with my pitch, and I do this with my model. Walk through. I do a couple of things. One is, I take my own time on the front end to outline and to kind of, and to make a plan for like when I'm sitting down with the deck, what are the headline points that I want to make. So I outline that
Steven Plappert: I maybe like practice it a few times. I'll shoot a loom video of me like going through that, you know, and then I'll I'll share that with an investor like a current investors like friendly. So people in techstars that kind of stuff, I'll share it around to my network
Steven Plappert: to like to polish that and those kind of battle test my approach, you know. Like, so my, my perfect approach, basically. And that's the first part about it is like the more you sharpen that approach, and the more you get comfortable hitting those points, the more you there become. Second nature, the easier you'll be at like whipping yourself back to that, you know, in the in, in, the, in, the, in, in real time.
Steven Plappert: so practicing it, sharing it, getting feedback polishing it before you actually hit. The starting gate is great.
Steven Plappert: and then like, so what I do in front of before my rounds is, if you have current investors, or if you don't, you know you're in tech starts. You have access to people literally try to practice like I did this before. My last round is, I sat down with 10 different of my current investors, and I pitched them on the business like my, I gave them my like. I walked them through my deck and and hit on my pitch.
Steven Plappert: and then I also walk them through my model, and I hit on, and I hit on that and I. And it's not perfect. But you, kinda you ask them to like, act like you're an investor and like and have that engagement.
Steven Plappert: And so you get a little bit of practice there, and you get a little feel for it there, and and kind of like how how things land. But but if I'm really being honest like even that, it's just different than when you're actually in the field, actually pitching it. And like the only way you really get better at is like, you just gotta have a lot of investor meetings like
Steven Plappert: the more meetings you have the better you'll get like controlling it, and under. It likes that kind of noticing when it gets knocked off track, and like finding a way to push it back. So I'd say, just like, you know, practice as much as you can, you know, before you do it. Go out there and raise the ground just to sharpen the ax. But really you just gotta get out there and and and start doing it. And you, kinda you know, learn learn over to over time from there one of the 1. One tip I do have, though, in terms of bringing it back is like.
Steven Plappert: if someone asks you a question that takes you in a direction that's off track.
Steven Plappert: You want to finish your answer with bringing it back on track like you don't want to finish the answer and then pause. You want to finish your answer by looping back.
Steven Plappert: you know, which is not always easy to do, and it's very. It's not always obvious. You know how to do. I'm trying to even think of like a good example. But
Steven Plappert: you know, like one example could be this like, if if someone like say, let's say it's really early on in the business, like your pre market, and the investors trying to like hammer you on Cack, like, you know, like you don't even know you haven't sold a customer. They're like, you know, what's your cack? What's your calculation for Cack and that kind of stuff, and you're and like you're going down this kind of rabbit hole, you know you, you may say you may like say, Well, look at me. First of all, you know, we're we're really early on and like. And so if I'm being really honest with you, I think you know this as well. It's like we don't. We don't know our cac
Steven Plappert: but here's what I think it is, and and and here's and here's why. And so you're answering that. And then you're like, well, what I think is, is even more important than than cat is like, who is our customer, and why would they buy our product? And like we really sell to these customers, and they love our product for these reasons. And so you maybe kind of end on that. If if that's a good point that you want to anchor on, and so I don't. It's it's one of those things that like I feel like you really just have to get out there and and and and get reps on, you know, to to build.
Snow Lee / Runbear: That's great, that
Snow Lee / Runbear: that's that's really nice. Thank you for the great tips and the advice.
Jennifer Loh: Sales. We call it batting cages like, just get out in the batting cages and just take some hits and practice with each other so you could like set up batting cages with your peers, and found with the founders, or like in this case with other investors. But yeah, I love that I love your sales approach. It's like so methodical.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, I'm definitely like a like, I say, a very financing sales guys, I'm very analytical and kind of methodical in in in my approach. But yeah, it's a really great great question. Snow and Antonio, you got a you got a question.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, yeah, thank you, Steven. Great great workshop.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So I I wanted to go back to what Jayla was asking about conversion, and you know one of the initial slides you showed that you advise for a 200 plus company. So I was wondering if you came out if you if you can. Tell us some some ballpark number conversion for B Twoc, that you see a a lot that can be using a financial model. And besides, the usual research should do online. Like if you, if you just seen like conversion, numbers that are make sense to investor can make sense, especially to us, for our forecast.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, it's a great question. And I'll be honest. I won't have a good answer for you, because there is so much variability in it. It. What, in my opinion, it hinges mostly on, is essentially like the the price of your of your product in the subset of the consumer market, you know, if you're really high price kind of premium product, you might get a much lower conversion if you're really low price, more kind of commodity style, you know, kind of everyday product.
Steven Plappert: You're gonna get a higher conversion rate, you know, I think. And it would be thinking about it just straight off the top of like website traffic. It's it's definitely in the single digits, you know, if not some, in some cases, maybe even lower than a percent
Steven Plappert: But we're but that's a big range, you know, 0 to 9% and it's not even completely contained in that range. What I will say as an answer to that question, though, and what I would advise you to do, and when you're thinking about your assumptions is really similar to my story on partnerships, finding those corollary contempe companies that look like you but aren't competitive, really. Try to find companies like that. I mean, it's one of the other benefits of techstars. At this point techstars has, like by 10 different companies that are close enough to any of our businesses
Steven Plappert: to be a resource on that like consumer businesses that sell a product in a similar price range, you know, to a similar segments and things like that. You really wanna try to find those companies and see what they were able to get, because it's so contextual like, it really depends on the customer and the product. So I think that that's what I would encourage if you're to to try to gut check assumptions, is that?
Steven Plappert: And then, just generally speaking, as well.
Steven Plappert: even even that, you know. That'll that'll give you the that'll give you as far as you can go before you actually get data from the market. But the ultimately the market
Steven Plappert: really will end up telling you what the conversion rate are so like in in the in. The what I like to do is like if I'm gearing up for around, and I'm preparing a model. I try to have conversations with businesses that are somewhat similar to me. To get a general sense. I then pick a number, you know, and run with it one that puts level headed revenue projections in front of the investor, and then, if I, if I, if an investor pokes at it and says, Hey, you know, like.
Steven Plappert: what? What do you have to say to defend that conversion rate? Basically, you know what I what I say is like, well, I talked to some others company similar to us. They they've that they've seen similar rates. Frankly, it seems like a really reasonable conversion rate to me, given my vantage point in this business. But you know, the most important thing I'd like to say in response to that is like.
Steven Plappert: you know, we're the type of company that religiously tracks metrics, and as we penetrate into the market as we stand this company up, you know, we'll see what our conversion is, and we'll iterate on that, you know. But but this, I think, is a reasonable assumption at this time.
Steven Plappert: you know, and this, and if they say it's not reasonable, then you can kinda ask them for for why that is, and then you can decide, you know, sometimes
Steven Plappert: in the model. It's also good to do like sensitivity analysis. Because
Steven Plappert: if you talk with an investor about a metric that you know, even if you cut it in half, you're still a great business. You're you can be a lot more willing to change that metric, you know, like you say, Hey, look! If if you think the conversion could be half sure. I'll make it half, or still a good business versus if you know the metric. If it if you cut it in half. It really makes your model look bad. Then that's a metric, you might, wanna, you know, put a little bit more defense on and be a little bit more stiff on
Steven Plappert: so I hope that's helpful. I know it's not a great answer to your question, but it's a tough. It's a tough one, you know, and and that's that's a that's minus thoughts.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Thank you. Steven.
Steven Plappert: Got it.
Steven Plappert: I know we're we're low on time here. So
Steven Plappert: I'm gonna close out by just saying like I said, not a pitch. But if you are interested, you do get a discount. So text, first companies get 25% off forecaster for a year. And and yeah, it's an online financial model. It comes with an analyst. It's really kind of a full service on the finance side of of the house. So if you are interested in checking forecaster out and using it like I said, I think you'll you'll find a lot of value out of it. I think it'll be really helpful for you. But
Steven Plappert: but you're obviously trading time for money, and it does come into cost and all that kind of stuff so so versus yours on that but just wanted to let you guys know that you do get a nice discount on forecast if you're interested. And then that's it, you know. That's that's really all I got. You know. And we do have 11 more minutes. If you guys want to spend it. You have questions, but you've already asked a bunch of phenomenal ones, or we can, or we can cut it off here. And yeah, let you guys get back to your do your nice so
Steven Plappert: it'll save
Steven Plappert: Stephen. Yeah, any final questions. Yeah.
Jennifer Loh: You're just asking 25% off what total price.
Steven Plappert: Yeah. Great, yeah. Great question, yeah. So we we start at 500 bucks a month and go from there. So I will be the first to say we are not the cheapest solution for your financial model. It does does come at a at a not a cheap price and the main reason for that is, yeah, we're really kind of a a saas plus human company. So every everybody gets an analyst that analysts isn't just like an onboarding partner for you.
Steven Plappert: They're actually like assigned to your account long term, and they meet with you monthly quarterly update. The model report on the model are kind of like a fractional fractional team member. So almost like you'd outsource like a bookkeeper or something like that. So 500 bucks a month it goes up from there. Then you get 25% off. That. So think it's 375 a month is is is what the what the prices for text companies.
Steven Plappert: any other questions.
Nelson Mitchell: You guys have integrations to accounting software, they will pull in actuals.
Steven Plappert: We do? Yeah. So we integrate with quick books, we integrate with 0. And we also do. Csv import. So we can import any kind of bulk data from any source. And then we integrate with those 2. Those 2 accounting platforms.
Nelson Mitchell: Puzzle on your roadmap.
Steven Plappert: Puzzle. Yes, yeah. I like puzzle a lot they've done. They've done really well themselves, puzzles definitely on their on the roadmap. As is like, kind of some of the upstream ones like net suite wave is also there. So those we do want to integrate with. And yeah, right now, basically just have to like download it into excel, and then and then import it.
Chloe Lannert: So.
Jennifer Loh: Sorry I actually have one last question about
Jennifer Loh: the
Jennifer Loh: the actuals
Jennifer Loh: so like one for the monthly forecast, like once it already happens, are the actual manual inputs, like, someone is actually inputting it like us, or your analyst, or whatever? Or is it like connected
Jennifer Loh: to our quick books?
Steven Plappert: It's connected to the quick book. So that's one of the things I think is nice about these miles like. So you know, it's like on. I can show you mine real quick, like, basically
Steven Plappert: So it's all mapped in there. So like actual, you can just kind of click on. And then, you see, you know, forecast to actual, basically as well as you can click on a variance and see like we've been slightly underperforming against our forecast this year. So you get actuals and forecast side by side. And that's for any kind of accounting data or bulk bulk Csv import data. You can, however, like, go in here.
Steven Plappert: and just like manually enter data as well. So we can like get in here and like, if we wanted to get in here and like hard code over, that's what these blue cells are. You know, you can. Hard code like you would in excel, or something like that. So you can do either. But typically these days it's like either the account integration or Csv import, you know, to get most of the data in there.
Steven Plappert: yeah.
Steven Plappert: Vincent, you got a question.
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: Yeah, I'm curious. Do you guys work with a lot of Fintech companies? Cause like this is especially useful. For like more complex business models, right?
Steven Plappert: It's yeah. I'd say it's it. It's probably equally as useful for any kind of business model. It's just better, really, just about like kind of a more professional scalable, you know. Visual kind of understanding of the business. But I'd say we work with all all sorts. I mean, we got 600 plus customers now, and they spend, I mean, a lot of sales. Lot of Ecom, a lot of Cpg, a lot of marketplace transactional, certainly a good good chunk of Fintech and tech med tech.
Steven Plappert: and we've got medical cannabis companies I've got like a port a body company turning urine into fertilizer. I've got all all sorts of companies in there, so it's kind of one of the cool things about the business is like, you just get to see all these like super super interesting businesses. So, yeah.
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: Do you guys support like natively? I mean, obviously, anything's possible in a in an excel sheet. But the advantage of this is that you guys kind of have these like kind of pre-built kind of scenario models? Right? Do you guys already have existing models for usage based financial models? For example, if somebody uses more debt capital. But then you have, like a minimal monthly threshold for amount they have to pay. Is that like as a as a concept already existing in there.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, so we do have like a lot of standard bills like we like, we have, like a usage based subscription bill, for example. But like but it, I would say, it's one of those things where. So a bunch of standard builds in the model. And then we also have a bunch of standard bills that our analyst kind of pull from when they're building models. And it's really kind of like a custom configuration kind of thing where there's a lot of standard objects we call like a template library, or pull on from those or mix in a match.
Steven Plappert: And then we're customizing from there, you know, to to make sure everybody does get like a custom financial model.
Steven Plappert: But yeah, I'd say there's there's scarcely, or like a revenue model we haven't seen at this point. I mean, we've got 600 customers, but we've on boarded over 1,000 so I'd say like, but pretty good coverage on a lot of those we do pretty good job, like documentation internally as well. And I. And I'll also just say, like, we also have a great library of templates that are free to download out of Google sheets. If you, if that's more.
Steven Plappert: anybody's cup of tea and that we have usage based models in those template builds as well. So, and a lot of other business models covered there as well. So
Steven Plappert: yeah.
Steven Plappert: alright. Any other final final questions here guys.
Chloe Lannert: It's good, Steven. Thank you so much for coming in. Super. Super. Appreciate it. I'm sure you'll be hearing from a few of these folks pretty soon.
Steven Plappert: Yeah, no, I really, I really appreciate it. Guys, I appreciate you. Let me be a part of your tech starts journey. I I hope I was able to add some value to your day, because I know you gotta. I know you got companies around and you gotta demo to prep for and stuff like that. So just appreciate you and and I think, yeah, you, I mean, you guys got my email and all that kind of stuff. So you know, just just founder to founder if I can ever be of service. If you ever think I can help you like just
Steven Plappert: now that I'd I'd happily raise my hand. You know, cause it. It takes a village so good luck out there
Steven Plappert: on on Limited next week.
Jennifer Loh: Thank you.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you all.
valeria brenner: You. Thank you, sir.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Stephen.